"REFLECTIONS"

Memories of the Life of August Anton
written as a result of the motivation of his friends
published by the writer

(Eagle)
To my friends and countrymen!

Approached from many sides to write down my life’s memories as well as the events of the year ’48, as far as I was personally touched by them, and to publish these memories, I will herewith fulfill the wish of my friends and only ask for your kind indulgence if my descriptions fail to be elegant. Well then, I will do the best I can.

Once upon a time, many, many years ago, in the old city of Zerbst, in the beautiful land of Anhalt, located in the German homeland, a strong boy was born to an honest draper by his mistress. This boy was later baptized in the reformed church and received the name August. Now I cannot honestly remember all the details, only this much was clear to me, that I must be August. Now, the boy grew up, food and drink he loved to taste, and when he, because of his young ways, did some dumb pranks, he then often received quite sensible memories from his father or his mother.

With my sixth year, I was sent to a so-called "Winkel School" (Corner school) which was run by an old Kantor widow named "Durre" and was assisted by her already pretty mature daughter "Auguste." Later, when the City Council of Zerbst had a huge stately building erected and designated it to be a public school, all school-aged children, from five to fourteen years old, had to attend it and the “Winkel School” ceased operation. At the examination, I received a report card: Accepted into first grade on a trial basis! I went there for the next five years, and in the last two years, I was the top student.

In the year 1844 I was confirmed and now it was time to choose a profession for life. I would have loved to become a fur tanner, however, I was unable to find a master to teach me. In 1842 I began an apprenticeship at a brother of my mother, who was a master in the fur tanning profession, and I worked at his place during my free time when I did not have school. I had to be confirmed first and before I was able to be confirmed, he died, and since I could not find another master, even though I tried very hard, I began my apprenticeship with Franz Wiegand, the best cabinet maker around. The apprenticeship period lasted four years, and on 8 June 1848, after having passed my apprentice exam, I was declared carpenter officer and the court assessor in office took my word and handshake and made it my duty to travel to foreign lands, to see other cities and countries, so that, when the time came, I could become a capable master of the trade and a good citizen. Now, that I have honestly done; before I tell about it, though, I would like to first talk a bit about the beautiful land of Anhalt and then about the events of the year '48.

Now, during the beautiful pre-March time, the reigning princes of our German fatherland were the A and O (Alpha and Omega), the sun around which everything turned and I would like to be permitted to describe some of our has-been landowners. "Albrecht the Bear," a mighty warrior before God, was the founder of the dynasty. I suppose there would be little interest if I wanted to recite the entire family tree. We'll talk a little bit about the old Dessauer, the old Mustache, who was a successful general under two emperors and two kings. He did a stupid prank in the eyes of his...