

"REFLECTIONS"

Memories of the Life of August Anton
written as a result of the motivation of his friends
published by the writer

(Eagle)

To my friends and countrymen!

Approached from many sides to write down my life’s memories as well as the events
of the year ’48, as far as | was personally touched by them, and to publish these
MmeMories, | will herewith fulfill the wish of my friends and only ask for your kind
indulgence, if my descriptions fail to be elegant. Well then, | will do the best / can.

Once upon a time, many, many years ago, in the old city of Zerbst, in the beautiful
‘and of Anhalt, located in the German homeland, a strong boy was born to an honest
Oraper by his mistress. This boy was later baptized in the reformed church and
received the name August. Now /cannot honestly remember all the details, only this
much was clear to me, that |! must be August. Now, the boy grew up, food and drink
Ne loved to taste and when he, because of his young ways, did some dumb pranks,
he then often received quite sensible memories from his father or his mother.

With my sixth year, | was sent to a so-called "Winkel School” (Corner school) which
was run by an old Kantor widow named "Durre" and was assisted by her already
pretty mature daughter "Auguste". Later, when the City Council of Zerbst had a huge
Stately building erected and designated jit to be a public school, all school-aged
children, from five to fourteen years old and to attend it and the “Winkel School”
ceased operation. At the examination, | received a report card: Accepted into first
grade on a trial basis! | went there for the next five years and in the last two years
/ was the top student.

In the year 1844 | was confirmed and now it was time to chose a profession for life.
/ would have loved to become a fur tanner, however, | was unable to find a master
to teach me. In 1842 1 began an apprenticeship at a brother of my mother, who was
a master in the fur tanning profession, and | worked at his place during my free time
when / did not have school. / had to be confirmed first and before | was able to be
confirmed, he died and, since / could not find another master, even though | tried very
hard, | began my apprenticeship with Franz Wiegand, the best cabinet maker around.
The apprenticeship period lasted four years, 8 June 1848, after having passed my
apprentice exam, | was declared carpenter officer and the court assessor in office took
my word and handshake and made it my duty to travel to foreign lands, to see other
cities and countries, so that, when the time came, | could become a capable master
of the trade and a good citizen. Now, that | have honestly done; before / tell about
it, though, | would like to first talk a bit about the beautiful land of Anhalt and then
about the events of the year 48.

Now, during the beautiful pre-March time, the reigning princes of our German
fatherland were the A and O. (Alpha and Omega). The sun, around which everything
turned and! would like to be permitted to describe some of our has-been landowners.
“Albrecht the Bear", a mighty warrior before God, was the founder of the dynasty.
/ suppose there would be little interest if | wanted to recite the entire family tree.
We ‘il talk a little bit about the old Dessauer, the old Mustache, who was a successful
general under two emperors and two kings. He did a stupid prank in the eyes of his