relatives, who were very proud of their ancestors, to where he fell in love with a
common girl, the daughter of a pharmacist, her name being Anna Foehsin, and he
then married her contrary to all arguments, made her into a reigning princess and lived
with her happily for a long time, and also made sure there were plenty of offsprings.
To possess her, he did not back down from anything, he even stabbed her alleged
lover, whom he found once in a kneeling position in front of her. For this, a common
mortal would have been punished as a murderer, but since he stemmed from God's
Grace, he was allowed to do this. More about his characterization is the following:
As he once, as an Austrian field general, returned from a war victoriously, he was
received by the people of a southern city with a fitting festive march (music), which
he liked so very much, that this march had to be played at each fitting occasion. He
did not want to hear anything else anymore, just the so-called "Dessauer March";
yes, even in church, when the entire congregation sang holy songs, he would shout
out loudly with his terrible bear voice the favorite march, for which the following
text was written by a genius:

This is how we live!
This is how we live!
This is how we live each day!
With the most beautiful drinking buddies!
In the morning with brandy,
At noon with beer,
In the evening with the virgins in their bedroom!

Even when he was on his deathbed they had to play this melody for him and he would
yell out the text along, until his last breath.

For a successor Franz, called by all his subordinates Father Franz, this was an
opportunity, being a quite tight and people loving prince, who had only the welfare
of his subordinates at heart and was against all military actions. His favorite pastime
was to travel through the land, on foot, to visit each village and town. He visited
each school to convince himself o the capability of the teachers and the progress of
the students. He walked each street and lane and talked with all he met, regardless
if they were rich or poor, noble or common.

His successor, Duke Leopold Friedrich, was again the opposite. He was people shy,
did not care about the government, left everything to his advisors, who exploited the
land the citizens in the most shameless way. His only passion was to hunt every day,
to cross through the woods back and forth was the only hobby he had. No wonder
then, that in the year 48 the exploited people welcomed the Revolution.

Still, I want to tell about a princess from Anhalt, who was meant to play a big role in
world history. She was selected to be the wife of the Russian Emperor Paul, and
when he died, he was a very unimportant human moron, she became Emperor of
Russia under the name Katharina II. World history teaches us that she enlarged the
Russian State quite a lot and broadened its borders and reached the highest step on
the ladder to power. Therefore, she was called "Katharina the Great". The famous
historian, Johannes von Mueller, says about her: She was great, if greatness could

3