story was told, the congregation broke up slowly and what was the most unusual
thing was, that in my opinion in those days, everyone left in pairs. The Forester with
his Mrs. Forester, the hunter, "Otto Fritze" by name, with Aunt Gertchen, our master
together with the already aging Aunt Minna, the journeyman with the female cook,
the servant with the chambermaid and this way also the neighbors, all left paired up.
And only I, the apprentice, stayed seated alone with the babysitter; we exchanged our
amazements in regard to what made these pairs leave together, one pair going in this
direction, one pair in the other direction and all had chosen densely grown over spots.
I made a suggestion to her that we both should look for a spot ourselves, but without
success, she did not want to and so we just stayed sitting alone together and spent
the time in joyful discussions until it was time to go to bed. I really found life in the
country very relaxing, social, we all liked one another, and the Poet is definitely right,
when he sings:  "Girl from the country, how good you truly are!  How the color of
virginity suits you so well!"  And so forth.

Now, everything in the world has an end, and so our time also ended and we had to
return to the city, had to say goodbye to all the nice people, the beautiful deer roasts
and carps, and the masses and fill and excess of everything, and the life filled with
hunger began again for the master.

Fall of 1847 had arrived. No one, namely among the common people, had an idea
that such important political events prepared themselves, and there even were several
indications, which pointed to something very unusual. For example, in our city Zerbst,
stood since God knows when a huge sandstone sculpture which was to portray the
Knight Roland. Helmet on his head, the sword in his fist. As I was taught, he is
supposed to be standing in seven German cities and is supposed to mean, that
wherever such a Roland figure is standing, there is a high court, an assize in
existence. The City Council of Zerbst had decided, since the town was very rich, to
have a very artistic sentry-box built for Knight Roland and gave the order to execute
this plan to a builder named Wilhelm Raedike. He was a very rich and well-to-do man.
He employed many craftsmen and sculptors, money was not held tight, only to build
a beautiful monument. As the enclosure fell, everything stood there in mighty beauty.
Everyone was amazed, jubilant and happy about this very beautiful and expensive
building, but yet a murmur went through the crowd, as if something illegal had
happened, but no one knew what it was. Then finally it was brought to the surface.
A joker, who must have been informed in detail, had written a sarcastic poem and had
posted and distributed the same in the darkness of night, without anyone knowing
about it. This poem brought forth a storm of surprise, applause, but also upset. It
went like this:

Many hundred years you have stood there  
You grey man of stone,  
You saw as the waves of storm  
passed you by  
and also the sunshine.

You stood unsullen,  
No evil attacked you,

5