be thought of without any morale value. He probably means all her love affairs,
because when she saw a man whom she liked, he had to be at her will or else it
would have cost him his head.

So, now I'll close the characterization of some of the princes of Anhalt, now we will
look a bit closer at the causes which led to such a general people uprising and in many
places to such a bloody revolution. In the year 1847 all food in Germany was very,
very expensive. A bushel of rye cost five Thalers, a price which was unattainable,
because all wages were so low and all earnings so low, as to where the mass of the
people had to go hungry, while the officials lived high on the hog. In the spring of the
same year, I had to go to work, together with several of our journeymen, at a mill for
fourteen weeks. The mill was called Amts Mill, located near the city of Zerbst.
There, we did not feel anything of the expensive times, we had plenty to eat, and
 when we were finished there, we went to Jochheim, a forestry located near the Elbe
river, about three hours from Zerbst. The forester's name was Ganzer and his ranger,
a unique individual first class, was called Fritz Otto. As good as life was at the mill,
at the forestry we lived like masters. Here is the menu: early, six o'clock, coffee,
sugar, milk, butter and hard rolls in masses. At eight o'clock breakfast, bread, butter,
coffee, ham, meat and beer, and for master and journeymen brandy too. I, as an
apprentice, did not get any brandy. At eleven thirty was lunch. Soup, vegetables,
meat, roast, salad, bread, beer and brandy. At two o'clock, coffee, sugar, butter and
hard rolls. At four o'clock was afternoon snack. Bread, butter, wurst and such, beer
and brandy. At six thirty was dinner; again roast, bread, butter, cheese, meat, beer
and brandy and at each meal everything was available in masses. See! such was the
live of the officials. At this site, the poor workmen had their mouths and noses wide
open. No wonder that unhappiness reigned all through the land and the question
arose: Aren't we commoners and workers human beings too, are we only here to
carry the load and pay taxes? The old forester Ganzer and his wife were the most
deserving people in the world. She, the forester's wife, always asked us to go into
the garden and to pick for ourselves there berries, fruit and grapes as much as we
liked, there was plenty of all of these things there, so we did not have to go hungry.
The forester was a very friendly and entertaining man and each evening, when he was
not absent, all people who lived in the house and in the neighborhood gathered
outside.

Mr. Forester sat in the middle, everyone listened with attention. Then he finally
began. Now I have to tell you a story, you have probably never heard one like it in
your entire life, a story of the poisonous tree on the island Celebes and he elaborated
long and wide about the terrible consequences the fumes of this poisonous tree had.
The birds fell as corpses dead from the air; wild animals, which roamed near the
poisonous tree, collapsed dead and the people, who dared to get close to it because
of ignorance, also had to die and this way, during the course of many years, so many
corpses had gathered near the tree, so that the resulting poisonous smell due to the
decomposition of the corpses made it impossible for any living creature to live on the
island. And as long as we were there, he told this same story every evening as if it 
was news and everybody listened with suspense as if they had never heard it in their
life before and exclamations of amazement and of surprise were loudly heard. After